AWS
Q1) {
"Version": "2012-10-17",
"Statement": [
{
"Effect": "Allow",
"Action": "s3:*",
"Resource": "*"
}
]
}

Q2)  
i) JSON policy which provides ec2 access to a user or a group.
ii) JSON policy which denies ec2 access to a user or a group

Q3) a) Login to your aws console.
b) In the top left corner click on services, under compute select ec2.
c) Scroll down the page and select Launch Instance.
d) Select an AMI( Linux AMI is eligible for free tier).
e) Choose the instance type - t2.micro is eligible for free tier.
f) Click on configure instance to set VPC and assign IAM role
g) Choose the preferred boot volume.
h) Configure the security group or create a new one.
i) Select an existing key pair or create a new one(.ppk), Click on
review instance and click launch.

Q4)

Q5) 1) In the VPC dashvboard select your VPCs and click on create VPC.
2) Enter the VPC CIDR details and click on create.
3) In the dashboard select subnets and click on create subnet.
4) Assign name tag as public, select the vpc name that you created above and assign CIDR details.
5) Repeat the same process with private subnet and change the CIDR details.
6) Head to Internet Gateway in dashboard and select Create internet gateway, assign it a name.
7) Right click on the created gateway and click on attach to vpc and map it to public subnet.
8) A vpc with public and private subnets is now created

GCP
Q1) 
Q2) Creating a Service Account:
1.	Open Service Account page in the cloud console.
2.	Select the project in which you want to create a new account.
3.	Click create Service Account
4.	Enter a service account name (friendly display name), an optional description, select a role you wish to grant to the service account, and then click save.

Creating IAM role for a service account:
1.	Open the IAM & Admin page in the Cloud Console.
2.	Click Select a project, choose a project, and click Open.
3.	Identify the service account to which you want to add a role.
4.	Assign the Service account the role - roles/compute.admin for GCE access and the role roles/storage.objectAdmin for GCS access.
5.	Select one or more roles to apply to the service account.
6.	Click Save to apply the roles to the service account.

Q3)  Creating a bucket in GCP:
•	Open the cloud storage viewer in google cloud console.
•	Click on create bucket to open bucket creation form.
•	Enter the necessary details for each step and click on continue.
•	Select the standard for the storage class and the location where you want to launch it.
•	Click create.

Copying files using gsutil:

•	Install Google Cloud SDK on your local system and use the following command.
•	Use gcloud init to login into you Gcloud account and select the project. 
•	Use gsutil cp local-location/filename gs://bucketname/  to copy the required files from local system onto the storage bucket of your cloud.




Q4) 
•	Go to the top left corner of your Google Cloud home page, click on the triple bar icon ≡ and select Compute Engine ->VM instance and click Create.
•	Enter whatever Name you want in the name field and select the region where the you want to launch it
•	Select the default machine type or customize it to the requirements and select the boot disk.
•	Finally under the security tab there will be a SSH key field and generate a public and private key pair.
•	Install putty on your system and head to the SSH-> AUTH and browse for the private key that would have been downloaded when the VM instance was launched, load the network using your public ip address which can be seen in the Instance properties.
\ 

Linux

Q1)  grep  –o   –i   text  example.txt | -l
Q2) find . -type f  -name “*.txt”
Q3) 
Q4) sed –i ‘s/originalword/newword/g’   filename.txt
Q5) sudo find  /home  -name  “filename.extension”
